So let's edit the cart model now, we got the static add product method, now I need a new static method which is delete
product. There I get an ID of the product I want to delete
and I also want to get the price of that product, you can also name this product price because I'll need
to update the total cart price of course.
So with that, what do I need to do?
Well first of all I need to get my cart, so I need to read my file here and copy that line
and of course you could also refactor this
for now I'll simply duplicate the code here to make it a bit easier to understand.
So there I read my file,
I try to read in the cart and if I got an error here, I can already return because that simply means
somehow I didn't find a cart,
so there certainly is nothing to delete right so I can just ignore this.
Otherwise we will continue so
if we get no error, we'll continue
and now is the part where I want to update the cart. For this, I'll have my updated cart here and take
all the properties of the old cart and put them into a new object with that spread
operator, I now want to update both the products and the total price. The cart
total price should be reduced by the product price, however this would be incorrect because if we have
the product in the cart three times, it should be reduced by the product price times three.
So let's postpone this for later,
let's first of all find out how often we do have the product in the cart. And for this I'll have my product
index and I'll find the product in the updated cart in the products array with the find index method
and there, this goes through all the products and I'll check for the product where the ID matches the
ID of the product
I tried to remove from the cart.
This is now my index of the product,
however here I could even find the product right away,
just product like this because I will remove it differently from our products array.
For now I just need the product to find out what the quantity is because remember, we're storing the
quantity in that qty field,
so const product qty equals product qty, you don't need to serve that in a separate constant,
just a bit easier to read
and now with that quantity, I can use that here to have the cart total price be my cart total price
minus the product price I'm getting as an argument
times product, whoops,
product quantity.
So now I'll reduce the total price by the product price
times how many times I had the product in the cart.
So that is one important piece of information
and now I can also update my cart products here, whoops, products and set it equal to,
whoops not that cart by the way, the updated cart down there,
so updated cart total price, updated cart total price and updated cart products is now updated cart
products which for now is the old products array but now I'll call filter again just as I did in the product
model, there
this function runs over all elements in there and keeps only ones where I return true,
so I want to return true for all products except for the one I'm removing,
so here I will return true only if the product ID is not equal to the ID I'm looking for.
So all other products are kept.
And with that, I can write the cart back into my file by copying this, write file and store my updated cart
there.
So this should now in theory work,
I can now also go to the product model and there I now need to import my cart model, so const cart equals
require cart like this
and now with that imported, in here I can simply call cart delete product and pass the ID and I also
need the price now. To get this, I will extract my product before removing it so I'll have my product here
by searching my products with the find method for the product where the ID matches the ID I try
to delete,
so now I got that product information here which allows me to pass in the product price to my delete product
method.
So now we are able hopefully to delete a product by its ID and also to then delete it from the cart
if it was in there
and right now for example, if we have a look at our cart, we do have that ID, the milk can,
we do have that in there so this should be gone if we delete it.
So now in the admin controller in post delete product, we can use product and then delete by id and pass
in our prod ID here, like this
and then we can also redirect to /admin/products.
Now by the way a little side note, it would be best if we have a callback in delete by ID so that we
only redirect once we're done
and the same is also true for updating
by the way. There the callback in save would be best for redirecting, for now I'll not do this, later
we will add this little functionality. But let's now see if that works,
if I delete the milk can here, I get an error, cart is not defined in my cart.js
model, deleting the product work though,
if you check products.json, you don't find it anymore so this worked but in the cart model, yeah
I'm trying to get all cart fields but of course I'm looking at the file content so I should use this.
This is a bit annoying because now I deleted the product whilst I still have it in the cart but
it's no problem,
I will simply recreate it and then hack the ID into the products.json file.
So let's go to admin products, add a new product real quick, test,
get that image again,
set the same price
so that I correctly update my my cart price here and remove the correct price
and then some description test.
So now this exists again.
Now let's just make sure that I copy the ID that I have in a cart and replace the one that was newly generated
in products.json so that we really well delete the correct one from the cart too. Save all of that
and now let's give this a try,
if I click delete, if I reload this first of all so that we load the new ID here too and I click delete,
cannot read property, find of undefined is now the problem in the cart model. And that problem here is that
of course is still a string json format
so I need to parse it before using my file content.
So let's save this, same problem as before,
I will quickly re-add this, add some dummy text as an image, doesn't really matter,
set the price, some dummy text here, wI will not see the image here because it is not a real link but that
does not matter.
Now before doing anything, let's go to products.json and again replace the newly created ID with the ID
in the cart, like this,
reload this admin products page and click delete
and now this looks much better,
now this seems to work and in the cart indeed, products is empty and the total price was reduced to zero.
So this is working
and now let's finish this module up by also making sure that we do display cart items on the cart view
here.